---
layout: post
title: Week 1 - 26th-30th January.
categories: [progress]
---

### Research

Most of the week was taken up looking into various web technologies. This was a preliminary step in order to decide how best to  implement a board game as a web application.

I found various platforms for mobile and native apps that help with HTML5 and Javascript games, but nothing that specifically promised a platform for a web application based on a board game, and offered persistence of data so that players at different machines could take turns.

Another league of possibilities was already existing board game platforms. Among these Vassal and BoardGameArena stood out. Vassal is a platform for distributing and playing board games with friends over several types of connections. However, it does not natively support game rules, players must carry these out themselves. BoardGameArena allows players to design games, and they will be automatically supported with login, a waiting room for players to join, ect. However, it's documentation and set of existing games was quite limited.

I therefore decided it would be best to build a standard web application geared to host a board game. I came across Single Page Applications (SPA) and found they were supported by various Javascript frameworks such as Backbone.js, and Angular.js. The standard procedure is to use these on the client side to simulate game play, while relying on a server-side RESTful framework written in Ruby on Rails (for example).

I also looked into Node.js and some other technologies before sticking to the one above.

### Writing and Outline

A required document in the module process is the outline specification: documentation to help us get started with planning and thinking about the project as a whole. This was fairly straightforward. We needed to write an overview of the project, a list of key and perhaps difficult tasks, and a list of deliverables.

It was good to think about potentially challenging parts of the project. These include the database design, animation and control of the game through the user interface, and various other pages.

The list of deliverables was harder to create. But after thinking about various challenging stages, and what documentation would be needed to work out what to do, I came up with a fairly normal set of deliverables: requirements analysis, design documentation, platform analysis, a user interface prototype, server and client side implementations, tests, maintenance documentation and the necessary final report.

### Setting up a Blog

This was another task of the week. In order to implement the blog along side the github repository I would be using for the Happy Cow Game project, I decided to use github pages. Jekyll is a service that allows you to write blog entries in mark down, which are then compiled and can be uploaded to be parsed without the need for a server side language. So that is how these blog posts are written.

### Experiments and Learning

When looking into technologies I did a few tutorials to learn a bit more about them before committing to using them for an entire project. Among these were a Cappuccino tutorial to make a image rotator. Cappuccino and Objective-J are nice technologies, but not fully suited to the application I wanted to create. I then went on and discovered Backbone and Angular, Javascript libraries. After following a basic tutorial for angular, I implemented a small app I found as an example of Backbone, using the Angular framework. It is hosted [http://users.aber.ac.uk/sis17/projects/todo](here).
